---
title: FAQ
description:
  The arrival of a new alternative to ls(1) is bound to raise questions. Here
  are the answers to questions raised (or anticipated to be raised) about pls.
---

Here are some questions you might have about <Pls />, and the answers to those
questions.

---

**Why the name <Pls />?**

The name <Pls /> is a play on the `ls(1)` command. I picked it because it was
short, [memorable](/pls/about/intro/#features) and only one keypress away from
`ls(1)`. If you prefer a different name you can always alias it.

```bash
alias rls="pls"
```

---

**Does <Pls /> support Windows?**

No. <Pls />, being a tool for pros, favours operating systems that are popular
with those users, which Windows is not. This may change in the future if there
is [considerable demand](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/issues/80) and there are
open-source contributions towards that goal.

---

**Is <Pls /> a replacement for `ls(1)`?**

No. <Pls /> is an alternative, not a replacement, for `ls(1)`. It some more
features, prints prettier output and offers a lot of customisation, which make
it ideal for human usage, but for scripts, `ls(1)` is still a better choice
because it is tried, tested and trusted, not to mention ubiquitous.

---

**Why build an `ls(1)` alternative?**

IDEs and code editors use helpful UI patterns like icons and colors to
disambiguate files and provide more information about them like their file type
and VCS status. <Pls /> brings these features to the terminal.

---

**Why build another `ls(1)` alternative?**

None of the existing `ls(1)` alternatives have features that make pro workflows
easier or more pleasant. <Pls /> is the first `ls(1)` alternative that focuses
on the niche demographic of pros who will appreciate a powerful feature set and
deep customisation.

---

**Why Rust and not _&lt;language&gt;_?**

Rust is a good choice for CLI utilities because it enables them to be very
performant. The pros don't want to see lag in a core part of your workflow.

Before I learned Rust, <Pls /> was written in Python (which was another reason
it's called <Pls />). It seemed like a good fit at the time because it was
decently fast and easy to develop and distribute, but at a certain point Python
started becoming a speed bottleneck. The point being, give me a good reason, and
I'll rewrite it.

---

**Is <Pls /> better than _&lt;alternative&gt;_?**

<Pls /> makes no claim of being better than any other tool, although we do try!
Our claim is that <Pls /> is a better fit for developers and pros because it has
some powerful, and thus complex, features that not everyone will use. If another
tool has a feature you miss, feel free to open an issue or better yet, a pull
request! See [how <Pls /> compares](/pls/about/comparison/) to other `ls(1)`
alternatives.

---

**Is <Pls /> free?**

<Pls /> is free in both senses of the word. It does not cost anything to
download and install and the source code is freely available to read, modify and
distribute. <Pls /> is licensed under [version 3, or later, of the GNU
GPL](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).
